Be respectful. Harassment and abuse are never tolerated. If you are in a situation that makes you uncomfortable at an MLH Member Event, if the event itself is creating an unsafe or inappropriate environment, or if interacting with a MLH representative or event organizer makes you uncomfortable, please report it using the procedures included in this document. Major League Hacking (MLH) stands for inclusivity. We believe that every single person has the right to hack in a safe and welcoming environment. Harassment includes but is not limited to offensive verbal or written comments related to gender, age, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, religion, social class, economic status, veteran status, sexual images, deliberate intimidation, stalking, following, harassing photography or recording, sustained disruption of talks or other events, inappropriate physical contact, and unwelcome sexual attention. If what you’re doing is making someone feel uncomfortable, that counts as harassment and is enough reason to stop doing it. Participants asked to stop any harassing behavior are expected to comply immediately. Sponsors, judges, mentors, volunteers, organizers, MLH staff, and anyone else at the event are also subject to the anti-harassment policy. In particular, attendees should not use sexualised images, activities, or other material both in their hacks and during the event. Booth staff (including volunteers) should not use sexualised clothing/uniforms/costumes, or otherwise create a sexualised environment. If a participant engages in harassing behavior, MLH may take any action it deems appropriate, including warning the offender or expulsion from the event with no eligibility for reimbursement or refund of any type. If you are being harassed, notice that someone else is being harassed, or have any other concerns, please contact MLH using the reporting procedures defined below. MLH representatives will be happy to help participants contact campus security or local law enforcement, provide escorts, or otherwise assist those experiencing harassment to feel safe for the duration of the event. We value your attendance. We expect participants to follow these rules at all hackathon venues, online interactions in relation to the event, hackathon-related social events, and on hackathon supplied transportation.

The idea of using food and therapeutic nutrients as medical therapy is a well-established practice, grounded in science and experiencing a burgeoning movement brought about by practitioners and patients seeking improved, more advanced and more personalized care with longer lasting results. Functional Medicine is the term used to describe the approach that has captured the attention of not just a more naturalistic breed of physician or veterinarian, but many in the greater medical community. “Functional Medicine really is a root cause approach to chronic disease,” says Dr. Nate Bergman of the Cleveland Clinic Center for Functional Medicine, a leading institution in the science and practice of using food to heal. “Rather than trying to fit the patient into a diagnostic box, instead we are more interested in understanding, ‘why is this person not feeling well or why are they not performing optimally? What are the perturbations on a fundamental level?’ It’s the questions of why,” he explains. Dr. Bergman and his colleagues are at the forefront of redefining what is possible in preventing and treating chronic disease with less reliance on pharmaceuticals, and in many cases, no reliance at all. It’s no coincidence that the movement has taken hold in veterinary medicine as well, with researchers and practitioners realizing the impact of a more ‘natural’ approach to care not simply due to strong anecdotal evidence, but thanks to convincing science and ever-evolving hard data. “Over the past few decades veterinarians and horse owners have come to realize the importance of nutrition in helping to maintain health and prolong life in horses,” says Dr. Cliff Honnas of Texas Equine Hospital. “Trends from human medicine have shifted focus away from pharmacotherapy-derived medical care and toward more ‘natural’ means of maintaining health.”

I scowl with frustration at myself in the mirror. Damn my hair – it just won’t behave, and damn Katherine Kavanagh for being ill and subjecting me to this ordeal. I should be studying for my final exams, which are next week, yet here I am trying to brush my hair into submission. I must not sleep with it wet. I must not sleep with it wet. Reciting this mantra several times, I attempt, once more, to bring it under control with the brush. I roll my eyes in exasperation and gaze at the pale, brown-haired girl with blue eyes too big for her face staring back at me, and give up. My only option is to restrain my wayward hair in a ponytail and hope that I look semi presentable. Kate is my roommate, and she has chosen today of all days to succumb to the flu. Therefore, she cannot attend the interview she’d arranged to do, with some mega-industrialist tycoon I’ve never heard of, for the student newspaper. So I have been volunteered. I have final exams to cram for, one essay to finish, and I’m supposed to be working this afternoon, but no – today I have to drive a hundred and sixty-five miles to downtown Seattle in order to meet the enigmatic CEO of Grey Enterprises Holdings Inc. As an exceptional entrepreneur and major benefactor of our University, his time is extraordinarily precious – much more precious than mine – but he has granted Kate an interview. A real coup, she tells me. Damn her extra-curricular activities.

